# Comparison-of-forecasting-models-for-Smart-Grid
Compared various regression models for time series data - Coded in Python

# Publication
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8423021/

# Abstract:
With the popularity of smart electrical appliances and home energy management systems, there has been a massive amount of data generated by the power consumption. This data can be beneficial for the utility as it provides the behavior patterns of customers, and thus useful decisions can be made to optimize the load on the grid. In this work, we establish a bidirectional communication system between some homes through the customer agents (CAs), which are installed at home, and the transformer agent (TA) which is installed at the local transformer. Once data is collected at the TA, it is sent to the cloud through LTE. We then use IBM Cloud services to filter and analyze this data to forecast energy consumption and make recommendations to different customers based on their real-time changing behaviors. To this end, we use six different machine learning models predicting the energy consumption: support vector regression (SVR) using linear kernel, SVR using Gaussian kernel, SVR using the polynomial kernel, linear regression, polynomial regression, and feed- forward neural networks (FFNN). To measure the accuracy of these models, we compute three different error metrics, the normalized mean absolute percentage error (NMAPE), the normalized root mean square error (NRMSE), and R 2 also known as the coefficient of determination. Based on these results, we observe that the performance of the forecasting model depends on the dataset properties including the size and variations. For example, while linear and polynomial regressions perform well for small-scale datasets, FFNN gives higher accuracy for large-scale datasets.
